Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to make a few miscellaneous improvements to the process of creating and
editing posts.
Let's jump right into it.
OK.
The first adjustment I want to make has to do with the edit post screen.
So if I navigate to a post?
And click the Blue Edit button.
Now we've already set things up so that if you're not the owner of this post and you try to submit this
form, you receive an error message that you don't have permission to do that.
Now that we've tested that, that restrictions in place, let's also make it so you can't even view
this edit form screen if you're not the owner of the post to do this.
Let's jump into our Post controller and our editor within our Controllers folder.
Just jump into post controller, scroll down and look for your function that is named View Edit Screen
within the Try Block.
Let's do this.
Let's cut this response dot render line into our clipboard.
We're going to use this again in about 30 seconds from now.
So cut that.
And instead, let's set up an if else so if parentheses curly brackets also add an L block for the condition,
let's just say if post dot author I.D. equals double equals sign to check for equality.
If it equals request dot visitor I.D. if that's a match, then we can just go ahead and paste in our
clipboard and show them that edit screen.
Else, if it's not a match, let's just add a flash message that says you do not have permission to
perform that action and then we can redirect them back to the home page.
So request Dot Flash add on to a collection named errors.
Give it a value.
You do not have permission to perform that action.
Below this, let's manually save our session data.
So request dot session dot save.
Let's give this a function.
We can actually stay all on one line if we give it an error functions parentheses, arrow symbol.
And if you stay on a single line, you don't even need the curly brackets.
So then we just redirect response dot redirect to the home page.
OK, let's save this and give it a try.
So back in this browser, I'm the owner of this post, so if I refresh, I can still successfully view
this edit form screen.
However, if I copy this URL into my clipboard and then in this window where I'm logged in as the barks
excellent account.
I try to paste in and visit that URL.
It kicks me back to the home page.
You do not have permission to perform that action.
Perfect.
Now let's change gears and work on another feature or detail that I want to implement.
So within our edit post form screen, I think it would be nice if towards the top there was a link that
said back to view post or back to permalink for post this way.
When you're done editing a post and you want to actually view it again, you don't need to rely on your
web browsers, history or back button.
To add this, let's jump into our text editor and within our Views folder, let's open up edit dash
post dot e.j.'s OK right below the include for Flash and right above this form tag.
Let's just say a new line.
Let's create an element or link.
Let's give it an h ref attribute.
And for the value, let's just include a hashtag.
For now, let's close that out for the actual text that you would click on.
Let's say back to post permalink.
Also, right before back, we can add a left facing arrow symbol.
To do that, we can just say Ampersand L a q uo semicolon.
OK, now let's circle back to the actual URL that we'd want to point towards.
Let's get rid of the hashtag and say slash post and then slash.
I'd only instead of ID, we would want the dynamic value.
So let's jump into E.j.'s and just say Post Dot underscore IDE.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now back on the edit screen if I refresh.
Cool.
But I think it would look better if it was a bit smaller, if it was bold and if there was more vertical
spacing in between it and the form.
So let's do this on the opening tag before the draft, we can give it a class attribute and give it
values of small and font weight.
Bold.
OK.
Let's also add a space in between the word back and that left facing arrow.
Finally, to add vertical spacing on the form tag right below it, we can just give that a class of
empty three, which stands for margin top three.
I didn't invent this.
I'm using the popular Bootstrap Library for visual styling in the app.
Let's go ahead and save that.
Now, if we refresh.
Cool.
I think that looks good.
And if I click on it?
Perfect.
OK.
Moving on, let's work on a new feature.
Up next, let's set it up so that when you create a new post, so create a new post.
Give it a title of sample post number one sample content here and submit.
Instead of this awkward intermediate screen, I think we should instead redirect the user back to the
View post for this new URL and have a green success message that says Post successfully created to set
that up.
Let's jump into our post controller.
You should already have that tab open, so just jump back into it post controller.
I believe our create function is towards the top is the line that begins with exports.
Dot Create.
OK, so this post create method is going to return a promise.
If it's successful, that means the post was created.
Let's get rid of this response dot send.
And instead, let's set a flash message.
So request dot flash.
Let's add on to a collection named success and give it a value of new post successfully created.
OK, after that, let's manually save our session data requests dot session, dot save, give it an
arrow function and then we would want to redirect.
So response dot redirect actually, instead of quotes for this value, let's use back ticks.
We'd want to redirect them to slash post and then slash the ID of this newly created post.
Let's circle back to this and actually make it dynamic in just a moment.
For now, let's address the situation where this promise fails.
So that would mean that there are validation errors.
So let's get rid of this response dot send line and instead, let's loop through any validation errors.
So errors dot for each.
Remember, this is the array of validation errors that are promised rejects with within this.
For each, we'd want to run a function for each item.
We can actually use an arrow function here.
If you have exactly one parameter, you don't even need a set of parentheses, so we can just give our
parameter.
Error arrow symbol.
And again, if it's on a single line, you don't even need curly brackets.
So we just want to create a flash message for each errors of request dot flash.
Push it on to the errors collection.
Give it a value of that parameter error.
OK?
After that line, let's just manually save our session and redirect.
So request dot session.
Dot Save.
Give it an arrow function and then response dot redirect back to create Dash.
Post OK, at this point, let's circle back to this idea that we need to make dynamic right?
If the post is successfully created, we want to redirect them to view that new post.
However, since the post didn't exist when this request began, how can we know it's I'd write that
I'd value will not even exist until the database operation is completed.
Well, what we can do is set up our postdoc create function that returns a promise.
We can adjust it so that it resolves with a value that is that new posts IDE.
Let me show you what I mean.
So right now, let's jump in to our post model within our post model file.
Scroll down until you find the Create method.
So it begins with post-op prototype doc.
Create on this line of code where we say Posts Collection Dot Insert one.
This is where we're actually performing that database action.
Well, this MongoDB method is going to return a promise and win that promise resolves.
It's going to resolve with a bunch of information about the database action that just took place.
So let's do this within the then within this function.
Within these parentheses, let's add a parameter and call it info.
OK, now on this line, when our promise is resolving, let's just resolve with a value.
So let's look inside info.
So Info Dot and then MongoDB will have a property on this called inserted ID in the eye in ID is capitalized.
Cool.
So now our promise is going to resolve with that brand new, newly created ID.
Let's go ahead and save that.
And then back in our controller, when we leverage post, doc, create within the function we're giving,
then let's just include a parameter here.
Let's call it new I.D. And then that's the idea that we would want to use in the URL when we redirect
the user.
So for the successful redirect, instead of this simple string of text of ID, get rid of that.
Let's do something dynamic.
So dollar sign curly brackets and just say new ID, let's save this and see how it comes together.
So back in the browser, if I go back and create another new post, create post, maybe a title of new
sample post.
Number two, this is the latest post submit.
Perfect.
The redirect is aware of that newly created Post I.D..
And there we see the content, not to mention this uplifting green success message.
At this point, there's just one more feature or tiny detail I want to implement before we move on to
the fun part of this lesson.
Let's set things up so that both the edit screen URL route and the post route where you would actually
submit this form.
Let's protect both of those routes with our must be logged in controller function.
The idea here is that if a visitor doesn't have a user object in session data, meaning they're not
logged in.
Well, we're already looking within that session data.
There's no sense in wasting another trip to the database to see if they're the owner of this post.
We know they're not the owner of the Post, they're not even logged in.
So in our editor, jump into our router JS file and towards the bottom.
For both of these edit routes, let's set the first function to be user controller.
Dot must be logged in comma, and then you can just copy and paste this for the post route as well.
Let's go ahead and save that.
And because I'm still logged in, I'm still able to successfully view those screens.
OK, at this point, we can now work on the feature that should be at least a little bit fun to set
up.
So from either the edit post screen or the Create New Post screen, try this out with me within the
body content field.
You can try to create paragraphs by dropping down.
Or you could even try to create a bit of bold text.
This should be bold and rap, the bold word and strong tags.
OK, then let's go ahead and submit this.
And now if I go actually view that post, you can see that the resulting HTML not only ignores our line
breaks, right, there's no separate paragraphs, but also it's literally showing us the strong tags
or the HTML instead of actually rendering it and making this actually bold.
This is because our template engine, in our case, E.j.'s is doing its job and escaping this content.
Escaping HTML just means that the HTML that our server is going to send to the browser is this.
It's not literally sending actual raw HTML.
Here we see the word board that we wanted to wrap and strong tags.
E.j.'s is escaping this text for us.
So instead of the actual less than symbol and greater than symbol to create an opening HTML tag, it
instead sends over these escaped versions of those characters.
Escaping user generated content like this is great for security reasons.
It's a must.
It's a necessity.
In other words, if E.j.'s was not escaping this content, we would be 100 percent vulnerable to a cross-site
scripting attack.
So, yes, this current setup is good for security, but it also prevents innocent, well-intentioned
users from including basic formatting in their post content.
So the question becomes How can we prevent malicious code while also allowing innocent things like paragraph
line breaks and bold text and headlines?
Well, the answer is that we're going to leverage a super popular tool named Mark down instead of trying
to explain what markdown is with words.
Let's just go install it in npm and see it in action.
So do this with me right now.